README.md, before:

# Visual Studio Project System Extensibility Documentation

Visual Studio can be extended in many ways, including adding new types of projects and augmenting
existing ones. This repository contains the [documentation and best practices][1] for
creating extensions that add new project types to Visual Studio. We welcome community input if you
wish to contribute new topics or find any issues.

To get started, read the [introduction][intro] while you're waiting for the [pre-requisites][prereq] to install.
 
Please file any product bugs you find on [Microsoft Connect][connect]. 
You may file doc bugs [here][docbugs].

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/Microsoft/VSProjectSystem](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/Microsoft/VSProjectSystem?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

For the latest features take a look at [Changes][changes].

For further information about extending Visual Studio in other ways please check out
[VisualStudio.com/integrate][3].

 [1]: doc/Index.md
 [2]: http://aka.ms/vsprojectsystemextensibilityvsix
 [3]: https://www.visualstudio.com/integrate/explore/explore-vside-vsi?wt.mc_id=o~display~github~vsproject
 [4]: https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/downloads/visual-studio-2015-downloads-vs.aspx
 [VSSDK]: http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9877247
 [prereq]: doc/overview/prereqs.md
 [intro]: doc/overview/intro.md
 [changes]: CHANGES.md
 [connect]: https://connect.microsoft.com/VisualStudio
 [docbugs]: https://github.com/Microsoft/VSProjectSystem/issues

Commit message:

Add code of conduct to README

README.md, after:

# Visual Studio Project System Extensibility Documentation

Visual Studio can be extended in many ways, including adding new types of projects and augmenting
existing ones. This repository contains the [documentation and best practices][1] for
creating extensions that add new project types to Visual Studio. We welcome community input if you
wish to contribute new topics or find any issues.

To get started, read the [introduction][intro] while you're waiting for the [pre-requisites][prereq] to install.

Please file any product bugs you find on [Microsoft Connect][connect]. 
You may file doc bugs [here][docbugs].

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/Microsoft/VSProjectSystem](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/Microsoft/VSProjectSystem?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

For the latest features take a look at [Changes][changes].

For further information about extending Visual Studio in other ways please check out
[VisualStudio.com/integrate][3].

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

 [1]: doc/Index.md
 [2]: http://aka.ms/vsprojectsystemextensibilityvsix
 [3]: https://www.visualstudio.com/integrate/explore/explore-vside-vsi?wt.mc_id=o~display~github~vsproject
 [4]: https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/downloads/visual-studio-2015-downloads-vs.aspx
 [VSSDK]: http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9877247
 [prereq]: doc/overview/prereqs.md
 [intro]: doc/overview/intro.md
 [changes]: CHANGES.md
 [connect]: https://connect.microsoft.com/VisualStudio
 [docbugs]: https://github.com/Microsoft/VSProjectSystem/issues
