doc/overview/dynamicCapabilities.md, before:

# Dynamic Capabilities

Project capabilities are the recommended way to determine the type, platform,
and features of a project. In the modern world, features of a project can change over time.
For example, when a NuGet package is added. CPS has built-in infrastructure to support
changing project capabilities without reloading the project.

This infrastructure will eventually allow the design time experience of
a project to be adjusted dynamically based on features/NuGet packages being used in the project.
For example, WPF features can be turned on, only because the project references WPF related packages,
instead of depending on which template was used when the project was created.
 
## Capabilities are now coming from dataflows

In both unconfigured project and configured project scopes, capabilities are no longer a fixed set of strings. 
They are now exposed as a dataflow source of `IProjectCapabilitiesSnapshot`.

For code which only cares about the current status of the project, it can get the current value,
like this:

```csharp
project.Capabilities.Current.Value.IsProjectCapabilityPresent("SomeCapability");
```

Or use a built-in extension method in CPS, which is recommended over the previous method:

```csharp
project.Capabilities.Contains("SomeCapability");
```

To detect capability changes, you need to chain to the data source:

```csharp
var myCapabilitiesReceiver = new ActionBlock<IProjectVersionedValue<IProjectCapabilitiesSnapshot>>(...);
project.Capabilities.SourceBlock.LinkTo(myCapabilitiesReceiver);
```

More often, CPS extensions are MEF components, and they import other CPS components filtered by project
capabilities. The following sample still works as before:

```csharp
[ImportMany]
private OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<IDeployProvider> DeployProviders { get; set; }

[ImportingConstructor]
public MyComponent(ConfiguredProject configuredProject)
{
    this.DeployProviders = new OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<IDeployProvider>(
        projectCapabilityCheckProvider: configuredProject);
}       
```

The `DeployProviders` collection will contain a set of `IDeployProvider` filtered by the current capabilities
of the configuredProject. The content of the collection can change over the time. 

## Dynamically producing project capabilities

Capabilities can be added to a project at run-time via code. To do so, export an instance of
`IProjectCapabilitiesProvider`. The easiest way to do this is to subclass `ProjectCapabilitiesProviderBase`
and override the `GetCapabilitiesAsync` method.

For example, if your project should only have a certain capability on Tuesday, you could use:

```c#
[Export(ExportContractNames.Scopes.UnconfiguredProject, typeof(IProjectCapabilitiesProvider))]
[AppliesTo("MyProjectCapability")] // Replace with capabilities that define when your provider should be active
internal class TuesdayProjectCapabilityProvider : ProjectCapabilitiesProviderBase
{
    [ImportingConstructor]
    public TuesdayProjectCapabilityProvider(UnconfiguredProject project)
        : base(nameof(TuesdayProjectCapabilityProvider), project.Services.ThreadingPolicy.JoinableTaskContext, project.Services.DataSourceRegistry, configuredProjectLevel: false)
    {
    }

    protected override Task<ImmutableHashSet<string>> GetCapabilitiesAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        // Replace this with whatever logic you require.
        return DateTime.Now.DayOfWeek == DayOfWeek.Tuesday
            ? Task.FromResult(Empty.CapabilitiesSet.Add("Tuesday"))
            : Task.FromResult(Empty.CapabilitiesSet);
    }
}
```

## How to prevent seeing capability changes in the middle of an execution

When changes are made to the project, just like other dataflows inside CPS, capabilites are being recalculated
in the background, and published when it is ready. Without proper protection, the content of a collection
like the DeployProviders in the earlier sample can change at any moment. It would be hard to write stable
code in this environment.

To prevent this, you can create a `ProjectCapabilitiesContext`, and wrap all the logic
inside it. Implemented as a part of `ExecutionContext`, the context will apply to methods called inside, and
also async tasks started inside it. 

```csharp
using (ProjectCapabilitiesContext.CreateContext(currentProject))
{
    // Inside a ProjectCapabilitiesContext, project.Capabilities.Contains("SomeCapability")
    // and DeployProviders will always return the same result.
}
```

## Block unsupported capabilities changes

A project system or its extensions may not be able to handle some capabilities changes,
and may want to trigger the project to be reloaded in that case.
That can be done by registering requirements through `IProjectCapabilitiesRequirementsService`.
If new set of capabilities violates any of those rules, it will force to reload the project automatically.

An easy way to register requirements is through creating a `ProjectCapabilitiesContext`.  The following
sample will register capabilities requirements to ensure the result of `DeployProviders` stays unchanged
for the project in the current session:

```csharp
List<IDeployProvider> effectiveProviders;
using (ProjectCapabilitiesContext.CreateContext(
    currentProject,
    DependencyManagementType.InvalidateProjectState))
{
    effectiveProviders = this.DeployProviders.ToList();
}
```

## Automatically load components when a new capability is added

Project systems or extensions can add `IProjectDynamicLoadComponent` through MEF. 
When capabilities requirements are satisfied, CPS will load the component, 
and unload it when the condition is no longer satisfied.

```csharp
[Export(ExportContractNames.Scopes.UnconfiguredProject, typeof(IProjectDynamicLoadComponent))]
[AppliesTo("MyExtensionCapability")]
internal class MyExtensionCapabilityFeature : IProjectDynamicLoadComponent
{
    public async Task LoadAsync()
    {
        // Initialize the feature
    }

    public async Task UnloadAsync()
    {
        // Unload the feature
    }
}
 ```

## Critical Capabilities Changes Error

With dynamic capabilities it is possible to get an error dialog during load that reads
"Critical capabilities changes were detected...". This happens when an incompatible
capability change occured during project load, and the project can never finish loading.
The most typical cause of this is an unconfigured scope extension depends on a capability
from the configured scope, but that extension point does not support dynamic capabilities.
Capabilities from the configured scope do eventually flow to the unconfigured scope, but
that is too late for some extension points.

Some (but not all) extension points to watch out for:
- `ProjectAutoLoad`
   * Fix: Use `IProjectDynamicLoadComponent` instead
- `ProjectNodeComExtension`
   * Fix: Ensure the capability is in the unconfigured scope
      * Capabilities property on `ProjectTypeRegistrationAttribute`
      * MSBuild `ProjectExtensions.ProjectCapabilties` [element](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ycwcwzs7.aspx)
        (root project file only, not on an import)

Commit message:

Add info about fixed capabilities

doc/overview/dynamicCapabilities.md, after:

# Dynamic Capabilities

Project capabilities are the recommended way to determine the type, platform,
and features of a project. In the modern world, features of a project can change over time.
For example, when a NuGet package is added. CPS has built-in infrastructure to support
changing project capabilities without reloading the project.

This infrastructure will eventually allow the design time experience of
a project to be adjusted dynamically based on features/NuGet packages being used in the project.
For example, WPF features can be turned on, only because the project references WPF related packages,
instead of depending on which template was used when the project was created.
 
## Capabilities are now coming from dataflows

In both unconfigured project and configured project scopes, capabilities are no longer a fixed set of strings. 
They are now exposed as a dataflow source of `IProjectCapabilitiesSnapshot`.

For code which only cares about the current status of the project, it can get the current value,
like this:

```csharp
project.Capabilities.Current.Value.IsProjectCapabilityPresent("SomeCapability");
```

Or use a built-in extension method in CPS, which is recommended over the previous method:

```csharp
project.Capabilities.Contains("SomeCapability");
```

To detect capability changes, you need to chain to the data source:

```csharp
var myCapabilitiesReceiver = new ActionBlock<IProjectVersionedValue<IProjectCapabilitiesSnapshot>>(...);
project.Capabilities.SourceBlock.LinkTo(myCapabilitiesReceiver);
```

More often, CPS extensions are MEF components, and they import other CPS components filtered by project
capabilities. The following sample still works as before:

```csharp
[ImportMany]
private OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<IDeployProvider> DeployProviders { get; set; }

[ImportingConstructor]
public MyComponent(ConfiguredProject configuredProject)
{
    this.DeployProviders = new OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<IDeployProvider>(
        projectCapabilityCheckProvider: configuredProject);
}       
```

The `DeployProviders` collection will contain a set of `IDeployProvider` filtered by the current capabilities
of the configuredProject. The content of the collection can change over the time. 

## Defining fixed capabilities for a project type

Some capabilities are static/fixed for a given project type. These capabilities should be defined directly on the
project type registration.

For example:

```c#
[assembly: ProjectTypeRegistration(
    projectTypeGuid: MyProjectType.Guid,
    displayName: "#1",
    displayProjectFileExtensions: "#2",
    defaultProjectExtension: "myproj",
    language: "MyLang",
    resourcePackageGuid: MyPackage.PackageGuid,
    Capabilities = "MyProject")]
```

Capabilities defined via the `ProjectTypeRegistrationAttribute.Capabilities` property are available on all projects loaded for that project type.

## Dynamically producing project capabilities

Capabilities can be added to a project at run-time via code. To do so, export an instance of
`IProjectCapabilitiesProvider`. The easiest way to do this is to subclass `ProjectCapabilitiesProviderBase`
and override the `GetCapabilitiesAsync` method.

For example, if your project should only have a certain capability on Tuesday, you could use:

```c#
[Export(ExportContractNames.Scopes.UnconfiguredProject, typeof(IProjectCapabilitiesProvider))]
[AppliesTo("MyProjectCapability")] // Replace with capabilities that define when your provider should be active
internal class TuesdayProjectCapabilityProvider : ProjectCapabilitiesProviderBase
{
    [ImportingConstructor]
    public TuesdayProjectCapabilityProvider(UnconfiguredProject project)
        : base(nameof(TuesdayProjectCapabilityProvider), project.Services.ThreadingPolicy.JoinableTaskContext, project.Services.DataSourceRegistry, configuredProjectLevel: false)
    {
    }

    protected override Task<ImmutableHashSet<string>> GetCapabilitiesAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        // Replace this with whatever logic you require.
        return DateTime.Now.DayOfWeek == DayOfWeek.Tuesday
            ? Task.FromResult(Empty.CapabilitiesSet.Add("Tuesday"))
            : Task.FromResult(Empty.CapabilitiesSet);
    }
}
```

Note there can be a chicken/egg problem here, where one capability enables a provider (via `AppliesTo`) that then adds another capability, and so on.

## How to prevent seeing capability changes in the middle of an execution

When changes are made to the project, just like other dataflows inside CPS, capabilites are being recalculated
in the background, and published when it is ready. Without proper protection, the content of a collection
like the DeployProviders in the earlier sample can change at any moment. It would be hard to write stable
code in this environment.

To prevent this, you can create a `ProjectCapabilitiesContext`, and wrap all the logic
inside it. Implemented as a part of `ExecutionContext`, the context will apply to methods called inside, and
also async tasks started inside it. 

```csharp
using (ProjectCapabilitiesContext.CreateContext(currentProject))
{
    // Inside a ProjectCapabilitiesContext, project.Capabilities.Contains("SomeCapability")
    // and DeployProviders will always return the same result.
}
```

## Block unsupported capabilities changes

A project system or its extensions may not be able to handle some capabilities changes,
and may want to trigger the project to be reloaded in that case.
That can be done by registering requirements through `IProjectCapabilitiesRequirementsService`.
If new set of capabilities violates any of those rules, it will force to reload the project automatically.

An easy way to register requirements is through creating a `ProjectCapabilitiesContext`.  The following
sample will register capabilities requirements to ensure the result of `DeployProviders` stays unchanged
for the project in the current session:

```csharp
List<IDeployProvider> effectiveProviders;
using (ProjectCapabilitiesContext.CreateContext(
    currentProject,
    DependencyManagementType.InvalidateProjectState))
{
    effectiveProviders = this.DeployProviders.ToList();
}
```

## Automatically load components when a new capability is added

Project systems or extensions can add `IProjectDynamicLoadComponent` through MEF. 
When capabilities requirements are satisfied, CPS will load the component, 
and unload it when the condition is no longer satisfied.

```csharp
[Export(ExportContractNames.Scopes.UnconfiguredProject, typeof(IProjectDynamicLoadComponent))]
[AppliesTo("MyExtensionCapability")]
internal class MyExtensionCapabilityFeature : IProjectDynamicLoadComponent
{
    public async Task LoadAsync()
    {
        // Initialize the feature
    }

    public async Task UnloadAsync()
    {
        // Unload the feature
    }
}
 ```

## Critical Capabilities Changes Error

With dynamic capabilities it is possible to get an error dialog during load that reads
"Critical capabilities changes were detected...". This happens when an incompatible
capability change occured during project load, and the project can never finish loading.
The most typical cause of this is an unconfigured scope extension depends on a capability
from the configured scope, but that extension point does not support dynamic capabilities.
Capabilities from the configured scope do eventually flow to the unconfigured scope, but
that is too late for some extension points.

Some (but not all) extension points to watch out for:
- `ProjectAutoLoad`
   * Fix: Use `IProjectDynamicLoadComponent` instead
- `ProjectNodeComExtension`
   * Fix: Ensure the capability is in the unconfigured scope
      * Capabilities property on `ProjectTypeRegistrationAttribute`
      * MSBuild `ProjectExtensions.ProjectCapabilties` [element](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ycwcwzs7.aspx)
        (root project file only, not on an import)
