doc/overview/scopes.md, before:

Scopes
======

### Introduction to scopes

In Visual Studio there are three "scopes" of context related to project
systems:

- `IVsSolution`, or the global context. There is exactly one of these in the 
  process.
- `IVsProject`, or the project context. There is exactly one of these per 
  project in the solution.
- `IVsProjectCfg`, or the project configuration context. There is exactly one of 
  these for each build configuration, for each project, in the solution.

These contexts can be represented in a hierarchy:

- Visual Studio process
  - `IVsSolution` 
    - `IVsProject` (a.csproj)
      - `IVsProjectCfg` (Debug|AnyCPU)
      - `IVsProjectCfg` (Release|AnyCPU)
      - `IVsProjectCfg` (Debug|x86)
      - `IVsProjectCfg` (Release|x86)
    - `IVsProject` (b.vcxproj)
      - `IVsProjectCfg` (Debug|Win32)
      - `IVsProjectCfg` (Release|Win32)
                
CPS has these three context scopes as well. But they are known by the CPS
concept names rather than their VS-specific equivalents. Here they are
with their equivalents:

| VS term       | CPS term            | MSBuild term                            |
|---------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| IVsSolution   | ProjectService      | ProjectCollection                       |
| IVsProject    | UnconfiguredProject | ProjectRootElement (construction model) |
| IVsProjectCfg | ConfiguredProject   | Project (evaluation model)              |

Any code in VS may obtain the `ProjectService` or `IVsSolution` because there
is just one in the process. 

Code that wants an `UnconfiguredProject` (or `IVsProject`) must either already
be operating at that context to obtain it, or must ask its parent context
for the project-specific context by naming the project to be obtained.

Code that wants a `ConfiguredProject` (or `IVsProjectCfg`) must similarly
belong to that context or first retrieve an `UnconfiguredProject` and then
request the `ConfiguredProject` by configuration name.


Note that `ProjectService` scope is not equivalent to the VS default MEF 
container. `ProjectService` is a scope beneath the default container and must 
be obtained from the `IProjectServiceAccessor`, which itself is defined in 
the VS default container.

### Scopes at odds

Because CPS projects are MSBuild based which has a project file format
in which nearly everything can be an expression and therefore may vary by
project configuration, most of CPS services for querying or manipulating
project data are implemented in the `ConfiguredProject` scope. This is
at odds with VS which expects most project data to be exposed at the
`IVsProject` context. For example, the `IVsProject` object is expected to
be able to enumerate items in the project, but items in MSBuild are the
result of MSBuild evaluation (since they may include MSBuild expressions or
conditions) so items can only be obtained from the `IVsProjectCfg` context. 

To rectify this disparity, CPS can 'lift' services that are defined in the
`ConfiguredProject` scope into the `UnconfiguredProject` scope. As there are
many `ConfiguredProject` scopes that are children of an `UnconfiguredProject`
scope, CPS picks the `ConfiguredProject` associated with the active project
configuration. The active project configuration is a VS concept that dictates
that for a given project, at most one configuration can be 'active'. CPS
synchronizes with the VS concept of active project configuration so that
CPS always uses the active `ConfiguredProject` as its source for data when
it is queried for it at the `UnconfiguredProject` scope.

### Which scope should I operate at?

The short answer is that if your code operates at the project level (that
is, you want one instance of your service per project) you should export
it to the `UnconfiguredProject` scope. Otherwise if you want your service
to have an instance for each individual configuration you should export
it to the `ConfiguredProject` scope.


### Controlling the MEF scope your MEF part is exported to

MEF parts belong to the scope necessary to satisfy all of its imports. A MEF
part that imports nothing belongs to the 'default' or global scope. A MEF part
that imports anything from the `ConfiguredProject` scope belongs to the
`ConfiguredProject` scope as well (unless it does so via the
`ActiveConfiguredProject<T>` wrapper). A MEF part that imports anything from
the `ConfiguredProject`.

| A part belongs to, the scope below, when it imports MEF parts in the columns to the right | VS default container | ProjectService | UnconfiguredProject | ConfiguredProject |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|----------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| VS default container                                                                      | Y/N                  | No             | No                  | No                |
| CPS ProjectService                                                                        | Y/N                  | Yes            | No                  | No                |
| CPS UnconfiguredProject                                                                   | Y/N                  | Y/N            | Yes                 | No                |
| CPS ConfiguredProject                                                                     | Y/N                  | Y/N            | Y/N                 | Yes               |

### Importing ConfiguredProject MEF exports at the UnconfiguredProject level

This ability to 'lift' data upward from `ConfiguredProject` to `UnconfiguredProject`
scope is exposed to you in at least two ways. If you simply want to access
`ConfiguredProject` data that CPS exposes while you're at the `UnconfiguredProject`
context the easiest way is often to query for the service stub that CPS often
exposes at the `UnconfiguredProject` scope. For example, if you want to get
the `IProjectSubscriptionService`, which is exported to the `ConfiguredProject`
scope, you can instead get the `IActiveConfiguredProjectSubscriptionService`,
which is available at the `UnconfiguredProject` scope.

When you are defining a MEF part that is exported to the `UnconfiguredProject`
scope, you may import `ConfiguredProject`-scoped services using the
`ActiveConfiguredProject<T>` wrapper. This is a MEF open-generic export
that you can import, providing your own `T`, where `T` is an export from the
`ConfiguredProject` scope. Note this technique only works when `T` is exported
with the default MEF contract name for `T`.  So for example, if you want to
import the `IBuildProject` service from the active configuration from your
`UnconfiguredProject` MEF part, you can use this syntax:

```csharp
    [Import]
    ActiveConfiguredProject<IBuildProject> BuildProject { get; set; }
```

Note that the generic type argument can even be `ConfiguredProject` itself:

```csharp
    [Import]
    ActiveConfiguredProject<ConfiguredProject> ActiveConfiguredProject { get; set; }
```

Most commonly, it's useful to define your own private nested class that
imports everything you need from the `ConfiguredProject` scope, and then
import that:

```csharp
    [Export]
    class MyUnconfiguredProjectPart {
        [Import]
        UnconfiguredProject Project { get; set; }

        [Import]
        ActiveConfiguredProject<ConfiguredProjectHelper> ActiveConfigurationExports { get; set; }

        [Export]
        class ConfiguredProjectHelper {
            [Import]
            internal ConfiguredProject ConfiguredProject { get; set; }

            [Import]
            internal IBuildProject BuildProject { get; set; }
        }
    }
```

Q: Is there a way to know which services belong to which scope (e.g., naming
convention)?

A: No. Just documentation, but we hope we have a better answer in vNext.

Commit message:

Clarified scopes and the "global" scope

doc/overview/scopes.md, after:

Scopes
======

### Introduction to scopes

A "scope" is a collection of MEF parts that are tied to the lifecycle of a specific object, or "context". When that object or context is torn down, so are the MEF parts that live in that scope. Scopes themselves can be nested so that parts that live in child scopes can "inherit/import exports from parent scopes, but not vice versa.

In Visual Studio, there is one global default "scope" of context and three related to project systems:

- __VS Default Container__. This is the default global scope, where parts in Visual Studio live by default. There is exactly on of these in the process.
- `IVsSolution`, or the solution context. There is exactly one of these in the 
  process.
- `IVsProject`, or the project context. There is exactly one of these per 
  project in the solution.
- `IVsProjectCfg`, or the project configuration context. There is exactly one of 
  these for each build configuration, for each project, in the solution.

These contexts can be represented in a hierarchy:

- Visual Studio process
  - VS Default Container
    - `IVsSolution` 
      - `IVsProject` (a.csproj)
        - `IVsProjectCfg` (Debug|AnyCPU)
        - `IVsProjectCfg` (Release|AnyCPU)
        - `IVsProjectCfg` (Debug|x86)
        - `IVsProjectCfg` (Release|x86)
      - `IVsProject` (b.vcxproj)
        - `IVsProjectCfg` (Debug|Win32)
        - `IVsProjectCfg` (Release|Win32)
                
Within CPS, the three project system scopes are known by the CPS concept names rather than their VS-specific equivalents. Here they are with their equivalents:

| VS term       | CPS term            | MSBuild term                            |
|---------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| IVsSolution   | ProjectService      | ProjectCollection                       |
| IVsProject    | UnconfiguredProject | ProjectRootElement (construction model) |
| IVsProjectCfg | ConfiguredProject   | Project (evaluation model)              |

Any code in VS may obtain the `ProjectService` or `IVsSolution` because there
is just one in the process. 

Code that wants an `UnconfiguredProject` (or `IVsProject`) must either already
be operating at that context to obtain it, or must ask its parent context
for the project-specific context by naming the project to be obtained.

Code that wants a `ConfiguredProject` (or `IVsProjectCfg`) must similarly
belong to that context or first retrieve an `UnconfiguredProject` and then
request the `ConfiguredProject` by configuration name.


Note that `ProjectService` scope is not equivalent to the VS default MEF 
container. `ProjectService` is a scope beneath the default container and must 
be obtained from the `IProjectServiceAccessor`, which itself is defined in 
the VS default container.

### Scopes at odds

Because CPS projects are MSBuild based which has a project file format
in which nearly everything can be an expression and therefore may vary by
project configuration, most of CPS services for querying or manipulating
project data are implemented in the `ConfiguredProject` scope. This is
at odds with VS which expects most project data to be exposed at the
`IVsProject` context. For example, the `IVsProject` object is expected to
be able to enumerate items in the project, but items in MSBuild are the
result of MSBuild evaluation (since they may include MSBuild expressions or
conditions) so items can only be obtained from the `IVsProjectCfg` context. 

To rectify this disparity, CPS can 'lift' services that are defined in the
`ConfiguredProject` scope into the `UnconfiguredProject` scope. As there are
many `ConfiguredProject` scopes that are children of an `UnconfiguredProject`
scope, CPS picks the `ConfiguredProject` associated with the active project
configuration. The active project configuration is a VS concept that dictates
that for a given project, at most one configuration can be 'active'. CPS
synchronizes with the VS concept of active project configuration so that
CPS always uses the active `ConfiguredProject` as its source for data when
it is queried for it at the `UnconfiguredProject` scope.

### Which scope should I operate at?

The short answer is that if your code operates at the project level (that
is, you want one instance of your service per project) you should export
it to the `UnconfiguredProject` scope. Otherwise if you want your service
to have an instance for each individual configuration you should export
it to the `ConfiguredProject` scope.


### Controlling the MEF scope your MEF part is exported to

MEF parts belong to the scope necessary to satisfy all of its imports. A MEF
part that imports nothing belongs to the 'default' or global scope. A MEF part
that imports anything from the `ConfiguredProject` scope belongs to the
`ConfiguredProject` scope as well (unless it does so via the
`ActiveConfiguredProject<T>` wrapper).

| A part belongs to, the scope below, when it imports MEF parts in the columns to the right | VS default container | ProjectService | UnconfiguredProject | ConfiguredProject |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|----------------|---------------------|-------------------|
| VS default container                                                                      | Y/N                  | No             | No                  | No                |
| CPS ProjectService                                                                        | Y/N                  | Yes            | No                  | No                |
| CPS UnconfiguredProject                                                                   | Y/N                  | Y/N            | Yes                 | No                |
| CPS ConfiguredProject                                                                     | Y/N                  | Y/N            | Y/N                 | Yes               |

### Importing ConfiguredProject MEF exports at the UnconfiguredProject level

This ability to 'lift' data upward from `ConfiguredProject` to `UnconfiguredProject`
scope is exposed to you in at least two ways. If you simply want to access
`ConfiguredProject` data that CPS exposes while you're at the `UnconfiguredProject`
context the easiest way is often to query for the service stub that CPS often
exposes at the `UnconfiguredProject` scope. For example, if you want to get
the `IProjectSubscriptionService`, which is exported to the `ConfiguredProject`
scope, you can instead get the `IActiveConfiguredProjectSubscriptionService`,
which is available at the `UnconfiguredProject` scope.

When you are defining a MEF part that is exported to the `UnconfiguredProject`
scope, you may import `ConfiguredProject`-scoped services using the
`ActiveConfiguredProject<T>` wrapper. This is a MEF open-generic export
that you can import, providing your own `T`, where `T` is an export from the
`ConfiguredProject` scope. Note this technique only works when `T` is exported
with the default MEF contract name for `T`.  So for example, if you want to
import the `IBuildProject` service from the active configuration from your
`UnconfiguredProject` MEF part, you can use this syntax:

```csharp
    [Import]
    ActiveConfiguredProject<IBuildProject> BuildProject { get; set; }
```

Note that the generic type argument can even be `ConfiguredProject` itself:

```csharp
    [Import]
    ActiveConfiguredProject<ConfiguredProject> ActiveConfiguredProject { get; set; }
```

Most commonly, it's useful to define your own private nested class that
imports everything you need from the `ConfiguredProject` scope, and then
import that:

```csharp
    [Export]
    class MyUnconfiguredProjectPart {
        [Import]
        UnconfiguredProject Project { get; set; }

        [Import]
        ActiveConfiguredProject<ConfiguredProjectHelper> ActiveConfigurationExports { get; set; }

        [Export]
        class ConfiguredProjectHelper {
            [Import]
            internal ConfiguredProject ConfiguredProject { get; set; }

            [Import]
            internal IBuildProject BuildProject { get; set; }
        }
    }
```

Q: Is there a way to know which services belong to which scope (e.g., naming
convention)?

A: No. Just documentation, but we hope we have a better answer in vNext.
