doc/overview/VS2013_vs_VS2015.md, before:

Differences between Visual Studio 2013 and Visual Studio 2015
=============================================================

### Exports

Replace uses of:

```csharp
    [PartMetadata(ProjectCapabilities.Requires, "…")]
```

With:

```csharp
    [AppliesTo("…")]
```

If you have any class members that are themselves exported, you should
add the `[AppliesTo]` attribute to each of those members as well to match
the one that appears on the exported class (if any).


### Imports

Imports of `IVsHierarchy`, `IVsProject`, or `IProjectConfigurationService` must
be changed from:

```csharp
    [Import(x)]
    Lazy<T> ImportingProperty { get; set; } 
```
    
to:

```csharp
    [ImportMany(x)]
    OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<T> ImportingPropertyCollection { get; set; }

    Lazy<T> ImportingProperty
    {
        get { return this.ImportingPropertyCollection.First(); }
    } 
```    
    
For any `ImportMany` of `OrderPrecedenceImportCollection` that you introduce,
you must add a line to your importing constructor:

```csharp
    [ImportingConstructor]
    YourExtensionClassName(ConfiguredProject project) 
    {
         this.ImportedExtensions = new OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<T>(
            projectCapabilityCheckProvider: project);
    }
```

### Changes that apply to only certain kinds of exports

#### IDynamicEnumValuesProvider 

Replace this pattern:

```csharp
    [Export(typeof(IDynamicEnumValuesProvider))]
    [DynamicEnumCategory("…")]
```
    
with:

```csharp
    [ExportDynamicEnumValuesProvider("…")] 
```

Commit message:

Clarify importance of AppliesTo attribute
This in response to #39

doc/overview/VS2013_vs_VS2015.md, after:

Differences between Visual Studio 2013 and Visual Studio 2015
=============================================================

### Exports

Replace uses of:

```csharp
    [PartMetadata(ProjectCapabilities.Requires, "…")]
```

With:

```csharp
    [AppliesTo("…")]
```

If you have any class members that are themselves exported, you should
add the `[AppliesTo]` attribute to each of those members as well to match
the one that appears on the exported class (if any).

If you have exports that have neither of these attributes, they will be ignored
in VS2015. VS2013 allowed you to leave the `PartMetadata` attribute off and
defaulted to allowing that export to modify *all* CPS based projects. That was
an unsafe default so the default in VS2015 is to ignore all exports that are
missing the attribute that indicates which types of projects an extension
should apply to.

### Imports

Imports of `IVsHierarchy`, `IVsProject`, or `IProjectConfigurationService` must
be changed from:

```csharp
    [Import(x)]
    Lazy<T> ImportingProperty { get; set; } 
```
    
to:

```csharp
    [ImportMany(x)]
    OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<T> ImportingPropertyCollection { get; set; }

    Lazy<T> ImportingProperty
    {
        get { return this.ImportingPropertyCollection.First(); }
    } 
```    
    
For any `ImportMany` of `OrderPrecedenceImportCollection` that you introduce,
you must add a line to your importing constructor:

```csharp
    [ImportingConstructor]
    YourExtensionClassName(ConfiguredProject project) 
    {
         this.ImportedExtensions = new OrderPrecedenceImportCollection<T>(
            projectCapabilityCheckProvider: project);
    }
```

### Changes that apply to only certain kinds of exports

#### IDynamicEnumValuesProvider 

Replace this pattern:

```csharp
    [Export(typeof(IDynamicEnumValuesProvider))]
    [DynamicEnumCategory("…")]
```
    
with:

```csharp
    [ExportDynamicEnumValuesProvider("…")] 
```
