doc/extensibility/automatic_DependentUpon_wireup.md, before:

﻿Automatic `DependentUpon` wire-up
===============================

Project systems can specify dependencies between items. For example, .xaml.cs can be represented as dependent upon .xaml.
In Solution Explorer, dependent items get displayed as chilren items under the item they depend upon. 

## Static dependency

The dependent information gets stored in the project file, using `<DependentUpon>` metadata.

```xml
  <None Include="foo.xaml" />

  <Compile Include="foo.xaml.cs">
    <DependentUpon>foo.xaml</DependentUpon>
  </Compile>

```

CPS can automatically add the necessary `<DependentUpon>` metadata 
project items when using Add New Item and Add Existing Item.

In addition, it inherits a behavior from VB/C# that supports
adding the child files automatically when user only selects and adds the
parent file.

## Dynamic dependency
#### Available: Visual Studio 2017

The addition of the globs feature in Visual Studio 2017 offered us a great opportunity to review this behavior.
In order to keep the size of the project file to a minimum, we wanted to avoid persisting in the project file each dependency.
That's why we introduced a new feature - dynamic dependent upon calculation.

This is enabled by the `DynamicDependentFile` capability.
```xml
<ProjectCapability Include="DynamicDependentFile"/>
```

## How to define new dependencies

There are 2 different ways to define new dependencies:
- using the built-in calculation provided by CPS
- Visual Studio 2017: implement `IDependentFilesProvider` if you need a more advanced logic than the built-in implementation supports.

### Using the built-in item dependency calculation

That is done via authoring xaml rules. For instance, we would like to make all the files ending with `.xaml.cs`
to be under the corresponding parent `.xaml` files.

Firstly, we need to define a content type and a mapping from ‘file
extension’ to ‘content type’. They could be added into the existing
`ProjectItemsSchema.xaml` file, or a new xaml file being included in project
system specific `.targets` file.

```xml
    <ProjectSchemaDefinitions xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/build/2009/properties">
      <ContentType Name="PageXaml" DisplayName="XAML Page" ItemType="Page" />
      <FileExtension Name=".xaml" ContentType="PageXaml" />
    </ProjectSchemaDefinitions>
```

Then when CPS handles a `.xaml` file, it can map it to a content type
and retrieve more metadata from the content type.

Next, we need to specify the ‘dependent file extensions’ of `.xaml` via adding metadata
`DependentExtensions` (`DependentFileExtensions` in Visual Studio 2015) into the content type.

Multiple dependent file extensions are allowed and must be separated by `;` (semicolon).

#### Visual Studio 2017

Allows defining depenencies for files that have the same file name. For example:
*filename*.*ext2* depends on *filename*.*ext1*

The following snippent defines *filename*.xaml.cs as dependent on *filename*.xaml:

```xml
<ContentType Name="PageXaml" DisplayName="XAML Page" ItemType="Page">
    <NameValuePair Name="DependentExtensions" Value=".xaml.cs" />
</ContentType>
```

#### Visual Studio 2015; obsolete in Visual Studio 2017
Allows defining depenencies for files where child item contains the filename and extension of the parent:
*filename*.*ext1*.*ext2* depends on *filename*.*ext1*

The following snippent defines *filename*.xaml.cs as dependent on *filename*.xaml:

```xml
<ContentType Name="PageXaml" DisplayName="XAML Page" ItemType="Page">
  <NameValuePair Name="DependentFileExtensions" Value=".cs" />
</ContentType>
```

Note that child file name must be formed as "`<parent file name>.<dependent file
extension>`". A few examples: `.xaml.cs`, `.aspx.cs`, 
`.aspx.designer.cs`, etc.

The new mechanism that exists in Visual Studio 2017 (using `DependentExtensions`) is more flexible
as it doesn't require the dependent item to contain the extension of the parent file. That enables dependency
calculation for items where only the file name is the same (regardless the extension)
abc.bar depends on abc.foo

Commit message:

Adding links to the capabilities and globbing pages. Rephrasing some of the explanation.

doc/extensibility/automatic_DependentUpon_wireup.md, after:

﻿Automatic `DependentUpon` wire-up
===============================

Project systems can specify dependencies between items. For example, .xaml.cs can be represented as dependent upon .xaml.
In Solution Explorer, dependent items get displayed as chilren items under the item they depend upon. 

## Static dependency

The dependent information gets stored in the project file, using `<DependentUpon>` metadata.

```xml
  <None Include="foo.xaml" />

  <Compile Include="foo.xaml.cs">
    <DependentUpon>foo.xaml</DependentUpon>
  </Compile>

```

CPS can automatically add the necessary `<DependentUpon>` metadata 
project items when using Add New Item and Add Existing Item.

In addition, it inherits a behavior from VB/C# that supports
adding the child files automatically when user only selects and adds the
parent file.

## Dynamic file dependency
#### Available: Visual Studio 2017

Allows dynamic calculation of file dependencies without storing them in the project file.

This feature, in combination with the new [file globbing](../overview/globbing_behavior.md) feature
(that enables not listing each included item in the project file),
allows keeping the size of the project file to a minimum.

Dynamic file dependency is enabled by the `DynamicDependentFile` [capability](../overview/about_project_capabilities.md).
```xml
<ProjectCapability Include="DynamicDependentFile"/>
```

## How to define new dependencies

There are 2 different ways to define new dependencies:
- using the built-in calculation provided by CPS
- Visual Studio 2017: implement `IDependentFilesProvider` if you need a more advanced logic than the built-in implementation supports.

### Using the built-in item dependency calculation

That is done via authoring xaml rules. For instance, we would like to make all the files ending with `.xaml.cs`
to be under the corresponding parent `.xaml` files.

Firstly, we need to define a content type and a mapping from ‘file
extension’ to ‘content type’. They could be added into the existing
`ProjectItemsSchema.xaml` file, or a new xaml file being included in project
system specific `.targets` file.

```xml
    <ProjectSchemaDefinitions xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/build/2009/properties">
      <ContentType Name="PageXaml" DisplayName="XAML Page" ItemType="Page" />
      <FileExtension Name=".xaml" ContentType="PageXaml" />
    </ProjectSchemaDefinitions>
```

Then when CPS handles a `.xaml` file, it can map it to a content type
and retrieve more metadata from the content type.

Next, we need to specify the ‘dependent file extensions’ of `.xaml` via adding metadata
`DependentExtensions` (`DependentFileExtensions` in Visual Studio 2015) into the content type.

Multiple dependent file extensions are allowed and must be separated by `;` (semicolon).

#### Visual Studio 2017

Allows defining depenencies for files that have the same file name. For example:
*filename*.*ext2* depends on *filename*.*ext1*

The following snippent defines *filename*.xaml.cs as dependent on *filename*.xaml:

```xml
<ContentType Name="PageXaml" DisplayName="XAML Page" ItemType="Page">
    <NameValuePair Name="DependentExtensions" Value=".xaml.cs" />
</ContentType>
```

#### Visual Studio 2015; obsolete in Visual Studio 2017
Allows defining depenencies for files where child item contains the filename and extension of the parent:
*filename*.*ext1*.*ext2* depends on *filename*.*ext1*

The following snippent defines *filename*.xaml.cs as dependent on *filename*.xaml:

```xml
<ContentType Name="PageXaml" DisplayName="XAML Page" ItemType="Page">
  <NameValuePair Name="DependentFileExtensions" Value=".cs" />
</ContentType>
```

Note that child file name must be formed as "`<parent file name>.<dependent file
extension>`". A few examples: `.xaml.cs`, `.aspx.cs`, 
`.aspx.designer.cs`, etc.

The new mechanism that exists in Visual Studio 2017 (using `DependentExtensions`) is more flexible
as it doesn't require the dependent item to contain the extension of the parent file. That enables dependency
calculation for items where only the file name is the same (regardless the extension)
abc.bar depends on abc.foo
